image: /assets/img/samurai.png

Watanabe Shin'ichirō’s Samurai Champloo depicts the Edo Era (1603-1868) of Japan in an interesting way. Throughout various parts of our heroes’ journey, the Edo Era is painted over with royalty, ukiyo-e art, clay pottery, shamisen music, minka houses, and all things appropriate to the Edo Era that give Samurai Champloo a classic, eastern atmosphere. But at the same time, the setting of Japan depicted in Samurai Champloo is full of hip-hop music, cults, graffiti, and slang. Obviously, there weren’t any of these things back in the period of the Edo Era. But I believe that Watanabe deliberately includes these familiar products of our modern society to not only create a quirky, interesting setting, but also to create an additive layer of relatability towards the audience to create a bridge that transcends culture and time. To expand, not only can we as an audience relate with the characters in Samurai Champloo through the expression of feelings and circumstance, but also through our own beloved facets of media that accentuate the connection for the the characters and world of Samurai Champloo.
In episode 8 titled, “The Art of Altercation”, we are introduced to Nagamitsu, a samurai that raps with a group of beat-boxers while challenging powerful samurai. He is a quirky guy, but that can be said for all characters in Samurai Champloo. What differentiates Nagamitsu, however, is the fact that hiphop is a part of his character- one of the first few glimpses of our culture seen in Samurai Champloo. Throughout the episode, we see themes such as hope and pride in Nagamitsu, all things that people can relate to. Such themes are accentuated when we as the audience see hiphop, and begin to realize that there is a close connection between us and the characters of Samurai Champloo in interests and in personality. Products of our culture are decorated all over the show, and, to me, it brings a sense of modernality to events in the past, and ultimately brings us closer to our forefathers.